I thought I'd talk about some
interface design fundamentals because
I know a lot of people that are watching
this course may be coming from more of
the development side of things.
But yeah, you think, okay,
do I really wanna open that can of worms?
Cuz how many years have you guys been
studying interface [LAUGH] Designer,
it's like, okay,
we're gonna just put this,
just drop this in as a part
of a four hour workshop.
So it's I can't begin to cover everything
that's involved in interface design,
but there's a few tips I thought
I'd throw out there of things
that I particularly pay attention to.
So consider this a starting point.
And again, Steve's course on Figma for
Developers,
that probably has more of them in as
well so you might wanna check that out.
So there's those three
steps of simplicity.
I just wanna mention them again,
because I think they work really well.
So going through everything.
So often, if I'm just,
I referred earlier to an existing app.
But I also do this if I work on a screen
in an app and I've mocked it all up, and
it's all in Figma, and
everything's in place.
And before I then show anyone, I go back
through it and do these three steps again.
I look at every element on that and
say, can I remove that element?
Can I hide it?
Can I shrink it, right?
So I almost use it as a double check for
my own work cuz it's amazing how you sneak
in stuff without really thinking about it.
When you're in the flow of design,
you go it'd be nice to have an icon there.
And then afterwards, you go,
why did I put an icon there?
[LAUGH] What was the point of that?
So that's great.
The other thing which I've mentioned
before is limiting the options.
This whole thing of we can only hold
4 things in our short term memory.
So limit the number of
options you show at one time.
So here's a list of options
from a site that I worked on.
So you click on the Options button and
it shows that blooming big list.
Notice all the icons.
And it's like [NOISE] that's quite
an intimidating list, isn't it?
So what I did is I did a bit of a top task
analysis on it to find out which ones
are those options people
actually cared about.
And then I redesigned it as that, right?
So the others are available,
you can hit load more and
it'll bring in the rest of the list.
The other thing that we played
with on this particular case,
I don't know whether we did it on the end,
whether we settled on it.
But we were looking at if you previously
had selected one of the options under load
more, the next time you came back,
that option had been moved up, right?
So that the most used ones
are sitting at the top.
The only problem we found with that when
we did a bit of testing is that then
people went the one that
had been removed and
put it back in the show the load more or
less.
People were like, where's that gone?
So it was like a kind of we I can't
remember what we ended up with, but
there's lots of ways I I think is
what I'm saying that you can kind of,
reduce the amount of overload
people are seeing at any one time.
So yeah, that's one a little
technique that I use quite a lot.
Yes, go for it.
>> Is there a reason why it's
not in alphabetical order?
It's hold, duplicate, cancel is that
because those are the top three?
>> It's because it was the order.
Yeah, it was based on the order
that they were most used.
So people normally hold, that's our number
one task, sometimes then they wanna
duplicate it, sometimes they wanna cancel
it, sometimes they wanna create return.
Now I'm not saying that's always
the only way of doing it.
Alphabetical almost never
use because alphabetical is
a completely arbitrary and
not based on user behavior in any way.
So in that case it's viewed in
order of usage but you could,
You could say if it was a process,
for example,
you would put it in
the order of the process.
So there are lots of different
ways of organizing it.
Interestingly, now we're really
getting into psychology, but
if you've got a longer list,
like the list on the left there,
you don't always wanna
just go in order of usage,
because we zoned out after three or
four options.
So and then we pick up again
at the end of the list.
So the least looked at stuff in that left
hand list is not the stuff at the bottom
of the list.
It's the stuff in the middle of the list.
So there's all kinds of little weird
things like that that you could take into
account, but that's a bit more
than we're trying to get at here.
But yeah,
I don't tend to use alphabetical a lot.
I mean, obviously, on like tables and
things like that and
where you're sorting via name.
You're gonna use alphabetical there,
but not generally as much in menus.
Yeah.
>> I noticed that you're using
some maybe microcopy techniques.
You're also like, okay, single word.
>> Yeah.
>> Instead of.
>> And also, I'm guessing that you've
tested this all out so that you can say
to the stakeholders who are like
panicked that you're shorting this list.
>> Yeah.
>> Based on our testing.
>> Yeah, so
I've got two things that I showed them.
First of all, I showed them the top
task analysis that shows that
those four items that
are listed there are counted,
as I remember, for
something like 73% of all votes, right?
Instantly, that's a good one.
And then we also had some
usability testing where I said,
find out how to open a concern,
which is something you do with
why are you doing this app?
And people found,
they went to the action, which was great.
And then they looked down the list,
saw it wasn't there, but
they saw the load more and
they clicked on it.
So I had evidence that people were
actually looking under that submenu.
So the combination of those
two was enough to swing them.
But it might not have worked.
It might have crashed and burn.
[LAUGH] In which case,
that brings me on to another option
I use quite a lot is chunking, right?
So as you can see from that menu there,
it's one massive long list.
This was their side navigation.
And as you can see,
it had stacks of things in it.
Now, ideally I would have liked to
reduce that quite considerably.
But, we don't always get what we want.
So what I did instead is did
introduce some chunking.
So I had, broke it up with sales and
logistics and
favorites and things like that to
make it a little bit more scannable.
I'm not, and then some stuff I moved out
of the it's kind of secondary stuff.
We've moved out into
a the lower part of the menu.
I basically just visually broke it
up a bit to enable scanability.
I'm not a 100% happy with that but
I don't wanna always show just stuff I'm
really proud of because otherwise,
it gives false opinions about stuff.
But yeah, that idea chunking
things up works quite well.
>> You also have dumped the icons.
>> Yes.
>> Is that search field searching for
a command?
>> That search is a universal search that
they had in a completely different part of
the interface, as is my name and
those options along the top.
They had this and that's another thing.
A grouping is another I think I
don't even know if it's on this.
But a lot of people end up with icons and
functionality all over the place.
And it's like, well,
where am I supposed to be looking on
the page to work out what I'm doing next?
And I've just poured it all
together onto that side menu.
So I've actually added almost more
into that side menu in some ways but
I've dragged it out of
other places on the screen.
I'm not claiming that's
perfect by any means.
So yeah,
chunking is something I do quite a lot.
Then it's progressive disclosure.
So breaking complex interactions down
into steps to avoid overwhelming users.
So what you're looking at on
the screen on the right-hand side,
there is their filter list.
So as you can see, there are so
many different filter options and
then you expand them out and there's
even more options underneath that and
it's a bit overwhelming.
So what I did is I replaced
it with this add filter and
then you can either search on a filter but
notice it's doing that thing
again where I'm showing the top four and
then there's load more, right?
So they could either search for it,
however they wanted to filter or
they could look at the list and select.
And then when they selected one of those,
the filter is added to the bar above and
then there is the additional options that
are required for that specific filter.
So that's how I kind of tidied
that one up by disclosing it or
gradually taking them through
the process rather than just going.
Here's all the information you work it out
so that's something I use quite a lot.
The other one I favor is good defaults.
So on average users only changed
the defaults 5% of the time.
That's a huge sweeping figure and
it will depend hugely on your situations.
But it's really worth thinking carefully
about your defaults for things.
So here's an example
from a flight site where,
they've just automatically filled in
a date range that is an average for them.
In terms of how far ahead it is and
how long people go away.
And also, it's automatically filled in the
number of passengers that it's getting at.
Maybe is not the best example, but
any kind of situation where
you're entering a default value,
whether it be a date, whether it be a
number of passengers, anything like that,
make sure you think carefully
about what that default should be.
Because it can save people a lot
of time if it's a good default and
they don't need to change it,
especially if it's a reoccurring task
that they're doing all the time, right?
So, for example, if you were doing a task
app you can't put in things
like what the task is.
But you might put be able to
automatically fill in a delivery,
a due date that's a week ahead
because that's when people
normally set it by a week ahead
by default, things like that.
There's lots of options around that.
Another one is prioritizing
critical content.
So when you mock up screens.
It can be very easy with
mocking up screens for
if you've got a lot of things going on for
the primary actions to be
lost in the noise, right?
And little things in the interface
can really draw attention and
drag attention away.
Now, there's lots of ways
that you can check that you
haven't done that and
in the user research and
testing course,
I think we looked at first click test and
five-second tests and things like that.
One thing I would point out,
an app that I absolutely love
is called Attention Insight.
And Attention Insight is
an eye-tracking simulation software.
The best way to think about it is it's
like a spell checker for designers, right?
So when you check stuff with a spell
checker you don't always agree with it,
especially a grammar checker.
And so it doesn't always get it right,
but it's quite nice to kind of
get a bit of feedback and advice.
So what you do is you upload your screen
and it uses thousands of hours of
eye tracking study to predict where
people will look on that screen.
It's not perfect, but it's not bad.
So for example,
you'll end up with something like this.
So this isn't an app unfortunately, but
on the left hand side was
the first mockup I did.
But you notice how by with the second
by changing the eyeliner the dog I
draw more attention to the primary call
to action a weaker on the first one.
So it's quite a good way
of refining your design and
making sure that your attention
is going to the right places.
So I'd quite like that, it's quite
a useful tool for keeping you focused.
>> Does it tell you the order
in which the eye would tap into.
>> There is a view that shows that.
But actually, that doesn't matter
as much as you think it does.
It's more where the eye
settles that matters.
I mean, the moment you put a dog on that
screen with any face, full stop, a human,
a pet, anything.
It's like a sink that pulls attention but
you can kind of control where
attention goes by eyelines,
by having arrows pointing
at things by layout.
There's lots of different ways of
manipulating where people look on
the page.
But it's definitely worth running
through a thing like this.
Just as a sanity check, really.